=head1 NAME

nbd_aio_disconnect - disconnect from the NBD server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_aio_disconnect (
       struct nbd_handle *h, uint32_t flags
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Issue the disconnect command to the NBD server.  This is
not a normal command because NBD servers are not obliged
to send a reply.  Instead you should wait for
L<nbd_aio_is_closed(3)> to become true on the connection.  Once this
command is issued, you cannot issue any further commands.

Although libnbd does not prevent you from issuing this command while
still waiting on the replies to previous commands, the NBD protocol
recommends that you wait until there are no other commands in flight
(see L<nbd_aio_in_flight(3)>), to give the server a better chance at a
clean shutdown.

The C<flags> parameter must be C<0> for now (it exists for future NBD
protocol extensions).  There is no direct synchronous counterpart;
however, L<nbd_shutdown(3)> will call this function if appropriate.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
connected with the server,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.0.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_AIO_DISCONNECT 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_aio_in_flight(3)>,
L<nbd_aio_is_closed(3)>,
L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_shutdown(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
