=head1 NAME

nbd_connect_vsock - connect to NBD server over AF_VSOCK protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_connect_vsock (
       struct nbd_handle *h, uint32_t cid, uint32_t port
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Connect (synchronously) over the C<AF_VSOCK> protocol from a
virtual machine to an NBD server, usually running on the host.  The
C<cid> and C<port> parameters specify the server address.  Usually
C<cid> should be C<2> (to connect to the host), and C<port> might be
C<10809> or another port number assigned to you by the host
administrator.

Not all systems support C<AF_VSOCK>; to determine if libnbd was
built on a system with vsock support, see L<nbd_supports_vsock(3)>.


This call returns when the connection has been made.  By default,
this proceeds all the way to transmission phase, but
L<nbd_set_opt_mode(3)> can be used for manual control over
option negotiation performed before transmission phase.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
newly created,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.2.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_CONNECT_VSOCK 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_aio_connect_vsock(3)>,
L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_set_opt_mode(3)>,
L<nbd_supports_vsock(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
