=head1 NAME

nbd_set_export_name - set the export name

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_set_export_name (
       struct nbd_handle *h, const char *export_name
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For servers which require an export name or can serve different
content on different exports, set the C<export_name> to
connect to.  The default is the empty string C<"">.

This is only relevant when connecting to servers using the
newstyle protocol as the oldstyle protocol did not support
export names.  The NBD protocol limits export names to
4096 bytes, but servers may not support the full length.
The encoding of export names is always UTF-8.

When option mode is not in use, the export name must be set
before beginning a connection.  However, when L<nbd_set_opt_mode(3)>
has enabled option mode, it is possible to change the export
name prior to L<nbd_opt_go(3)>.  In particular, the use of
L<nbd_opt_list(3)> during negotiation can be used to determine
a name the server is likely to accept, and L<nbd_opt_info(3)> can
be used to learn details about an export before connecting.

This call may be skipped if using L<nbd_connect_uri(3)> to connect
to a URI that includes an export name.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>, C<export_name>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
newly created, or
negotiating,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.0.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_SET_EXPORT_NAME 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_connect_uri(3)>,
L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_get_export_name(3)>,
L<nbd_opt_go(3)>,
L<nbd_opt_info(3)>,
L<nbd_opt_list(3)>,
L<nbd_set_opt_mode(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
