=head1 NAME

nbd_set_full_info - control whether NBD_OPT_GO requests extra details

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_set_full_info (
       struct nbd_handle *h, bool request
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default, when connecting to an export, libnbd only requests the
details it needs to service data operations.  The NBD protocol says
that a server can supply optional information, such as a canonical
name of the export (see L<nbd_get_canonical_export_name(3)>) or
a description of the export (see L<nbd_get_export_description(3)>),
but that a hint from the client makes it more likely for this
extra information to be provided.  This function controls whether
libnbd will provide that hint.

Note that even when full info is requested, the server is not
obligated to reply with all information that libnbd requested.
Similarly, libnbd will ignore any optional server information that
libnbd has not yet been taught to recognize.  Furthermore, the
hint to request block sizes is independently controlled via
L<nbd_set_request_block_size(3)>.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
newly created, or
negotiating,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.4.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_SET_FULL_INFO 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_get_canonical_export_name(3)>,
L<nbd_get_export_description(3)>,
L<nbd_get_full_info(3)>,
L<nbd_set_request_block_size(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
