=head1 NAME

nbd_set_socket_activation_name - set the socket activation name

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_set_socket_activation_name (
       struct nbd_handle *h, const char *socket_name
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When running an NBD server using
L<nbd_connect_systemd_socket_activation(3)> you can optionally
name the socket.  Call this function before connecting to the
server.

Some servers such as L<qemu-storage-daemon(1)>
can use this information to associate the socket with a name
used on the command line, but most servers will ignore it.
The name is passed through the C<LISTEN_FDNAMES> environment
variable.

The parameter C<socket_name> can be a short alphanumeric string.
If it is set to the empty string (also the default when the handle
is created) then the name C<unknown> will be seen by the server.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>, C<socket_name>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
newly created,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.16.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_SET_SOCKET_ACTIVATION_NAME 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_connect_systemd_socket_activation(3)>,
L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_get_socket_activation_name(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
