=head1 NAME

nbd_get_uri - construct an NBD URI for a connection

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 char * nbd_get_uri (
          struct nbd_handle *h
        );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This makes a best effort attempt to construct an NBD URI which
could be used to connect back to the same server (using
L<nbd_connect_uri(3)>).

In some cases there is not enough information in the handle
to successfully create a URI (eg. if you connected with
L<nbd_connect_socket(3)>).  In such cases the call returns
C<NULL> and further diagnostic information is available
via L<nbd_get_errno(3)> and L<nbd_get_error(3)> as usual.

Even if a URI is returned it is not guaranteed to work, and
it may not be optimal.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

This call returns a string.  The caller must free the
returned string to avoid a memory leak.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<NULL> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
connecting, or
negotiating, or
connected with the server, or
shut down, or
dead,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.8.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_GET_URI 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_aio_connect_uri(3)>,
L<nbd_connect_socket(3)>,
L<nbd_connect_uri(3)>,
L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_get_errno(3)>,
L<nbd_get_error(3)>,
L<nbd_supports_uri(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
