=head1 NAME

nbd_set_tls_psk_file - set the TLS Pre-Shared Keys (PSK) filename

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 int nbd_set_tls_psk_file (
       struct nbd_handle *h, const char *filename
     );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Set the TLS Pre-Shared Keys (PSK) filename.  This is used
if trying to authenticate to the server using with a pre-shared
key.  There is no default so if this is not set then PSK
authentication cannot be used to connect to the server.

This function may be called regardless of whether TLS is
supported, but will have no effect unless L<nbd_set_tls(3)>
is also used to request or require TLS.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If the call is successful the function returns C<0>.

=head1 ERRORS

On error C<-1> is returned.

Refer to L<libnbd(3)/ERROR HANDLING>
for how to get further details of the error.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>, C<filename>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 HANDLE STATE

The handle must be
newly created,
otherwise this call will return an error.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.0.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_SET_TLS_PSK_FILE 1

=head1 EXAMPLE

This example is also available as F<examples/encryption.c>
in the libnbd source code.

 /* An example showing how to connect to a server which is
  * using TLS encryption.
  *
  * This requires nbdkit, and psktool from gnutls.
  *
  * Both libnbd and nbdkit support TLS-PSK which is a
  * simpler-to-deploy form of encryption.  (Of course
  * certificate-based encryption is also supported, but
  * it’s harder to make a self-contained example).
  */

 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <stdlib.h>
 #include <string.h>
 #include <unistd.h>

 #include <libnbd.h>

 #define TMPDIR "/tmp/XXXXXX"
 #define KEYS "keys.psk"
 #define USERNAME "alice"

 static char dir[] = TMPDIR;
 static char keys[] = TMPDIR "/" KEYS;
 static char cmd[] =
   "psktool -u " USERNAME " -p " TMPDIR "/" KEYS;

 /* Remove the temporary keys file when the program
  * exits.
  */
 static void
 cleanup_keys (void)
 {
   unlink (keys);
   rmdir (dir);
 }

 /* Create the temporary keys file to share with the
  * server.
  */
 static void
 create_keys (void)
 {
   size_t i;

   if (mkdtemp (dir) == NULL) {
     perror ("mkdtemp");
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }
   i = strlen (cmd) - strlen (TMPDIR) - strlen (KEYS) - 1;
   memcpy (&cmd[i], dir, strlen (TMPDIR));
   memcpy (keys, dir, strlen (TMPDIR));

   if (system (cmd) != 0) {
     fprintf (stderr, "psktool command failed\n");
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   atexit (cleanup_keys);
 }

 int
 main (int argc, char *argv[])
 {
   struct nbd_handle *nbd;
   char buf[512];

   create_keys ();

   /* Create the libnbd handle. */
   nbd = nbd_create ();
   if (nbd == NULL) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Enable TLS in the client. */
   if (nbd_set_tls (nbd, LIBNBD_TLS_REQUIRE) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Enable TLS-PSK and pass the keys filename. */
   if (nbd_set_tls_psk_file (nbd, keys) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Set the local username for authentication. */
   if (nbd_set_tls_username (nbd, USERNAME) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Run nbdkit as a subprocess, enabling and requiring
    * TLS-PSK encryption.
    */
   char *args[] = {
     "nbdkit", "-s", "--exit-with-parent",
     "--tls", "require", "--tls-psk", keys,
     "pattern", "size=1M", NULL
   };
   if (nbd_connect_command (nbd, args) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Read the first sector. */
   if (nbd_pread (nbd, buf, sizeof buf, 0, 0) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* TLS connections must be shut down. */
   if (nbd_shutdown (nbd, 0) == -1) {
     fprintf (stderr, "%s\n", nbd_get_error ());
     exit (EXIT_FAILURE);
   }

   /* Close the libnbd handle. */
   nbd_close (nbd);

   exit (EXIT_SUCCESS);
 }

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_set_tls(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
