=head1 NAME

nbd_get_version - return the version of the library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <libnbd.h>

 const char * nbd_get_version (
                struct nbd_handle *h
              );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Return the version of libnbd.  This is returned as a string
in the form C<"major.minor.release"> where each of major, minor
and release is a small positive integer.  For example:

     minor
       ↓
    "1.0.3"
     ↑   ↑
 major   release

=over 4

=item major = 0

The major number was C<0> for the early experimental versions of
libnbd where we still had an unstable API.

=item major = 1

The major number is C<1> for the versions of libnbd with a
long-term stable API and ABI.  It is not anticipated that
major will be any number other than C<1>.

=item minor = 0, 2, ... (even)

The minor number is even for stable releases.

=item minor = 1, 3, ... (odd)

The minor number is odd for development versions.  Note that
new APIs added in a development version remain experimental
and subject to change in that branch until they appear in a stable
release.

=item release

The release number is incremented for each release along a particular
branch.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUE

This call returns a statically allocated string, valid for the
lifetime of the process or until libnbd is unloaded by
L<dlclose(3)>.  You B<must not> try to free the string.

=head1 ERRORS

This function does not fail.

The following parameters must not be NULL: C<h>.
For more information see L<libnbd(3)/Non-NULL parameters>.

=head1 VERSION

This function first appeared in libnbd 1.0.

If you need to test if this function is available at compile time
check if the following macro is defined:

 #define LIBNBD_HAVE_NBD_GET_VERSION 1

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nbd_create(3)>,
L<nbd_get_package_name(3)>,
L<libnbd(3)>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Eric Blake

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright Red Hat
